Reorganize READMEs and make each package's directions clearer (#24)
foxglove/ws-protocol: typescript/ws-protocol/README.md

# Foxglove WebSocket server and client

> The [Foxglove WebSocket protocol](https://github.com/foxglove/ws-protocol) supports any data encoding, as long as it is supported by both client and server.

Reviewer: I think we should keep the "This package provides…" portion since this might be the first landing page some people see (since it is the package readme on npm). Whatever decisions we make for the python package readme should be mirrored here or vice versa

## Installation

```

> $ npm install @foxglove/ws-protocol ws

Reviewer: This is redundant with the section below, so maybe leave it off here, unless you wanted to combine them and delete the second one? I think the explanatory paragraph below is useful whether or not we have a separate line for `npm install ws`.

# Foxglove WebSocket protocol in TypeScript

The Foxglove WebSocket protocol is encoding-agnostic, as long as the desired encoding is supported by both client and server. It currently supports Protobuf and JSON messages.

## Installation

> Install the `ws-protocol` `npm` package:

Reviewer: The name is `@foxglove/ws-protocol`, not just `ws-protocol`. I also find `npm` strange, we can probably just say npm.

On the other hand, overall I don't think this sentence is necessary because the line of code below basically says the exact same thing.

```
$ npm install @foxglove/ws-protocol
```

> You'll also need to install your own WebSocket server or client implementation. For Node.js, you can use the [ws](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ws) package:

Reviewer: I don't like this better, I think it's helpful to point out explicitly that this package does not come with a hard dependency on a specific websocket server/client.

```
$ npm install ws
```

Use the custom template provided [here](typescript/ws-protocol#server-template) to write your own custom JavaScript/TypeScript server.

To see the data transmitted by your server, open [studio.foxglove.dev](https://studio.foxglove.dev) in a browser, and initiate a Foxglove WebSocket connection to your WebSocket URL.

<img width="500" alt="Foxglove Studio displaying memory and CPU usage from the system monitor example" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14237/145313065-85c05645-6b29-4eb2-a498-849c83f8792d.png">

## Server template

The example server template below publishes messages on a single topic called `example_msg`, using JSON to encode message data and [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org) to describe the message layout. 

> Copy the script below into a file (e.g. `server.js`) and run it (e.g. `node server.js`). Then, make the necessary adjustments to build a custom server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the script below into a file named `server.js` and run it with `node server.js`. Then, make the necessary adjustments to build a custom server.
```

# Foxglove WebSocket server and client

> This package provides an example server implementation of the [Foxglove WebSocket protocol](https://github.com/foxglove/ws-protocol), enabling [Foxglove Studio](https://github.com/foxglove/studio) to ingest arbitrary “live” streamed data.

Reviewer: Same as the python package: this one is not just an example, but the actual library you'd use if you're writing a server (or client)

$ npm install ws
```

> ## Example servers and client

Reviewer: I know it's technically correct that there are 2 servers and 1 client, but it sounds weird to me to see one of these being plural and the other not 🤷

> Run these [example servers and client](/typescript/ws-protocol-examples), implemented in JavaScript/TypeScript, to get started.

Reviewer: I think we might want to stick with a full absolute url here, since this readme will be copied to npm where the relative path to another package in the monorepo probably doesn't work

> Run these [example servers and client](https://github.com/foxglove/ws-protocol/tree/main/typescript/ws-protocol-examples), implemented in JavaScript/TypeScript, to get started.

Reviewer: In this case since we're talking about the language it's written in, we can just say TS :)
```suggestion
Run these [example servers and client](https://github.com/foxglove/ws-protocol/tree/main/typescript/ws-protocol-examples), implemented in TypeScript, to get started.
```

## Server template

> The template below publishes messages on a single topic called `example_msg`, using JSON to encode message data and [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org) to describe the message layout.

Reviewer: I notice you kept this example code in the readme rather than linking out to a file. Is that because the example servers are more complex in this TS package than the Python one? Do you think we should put this simple example server in the TS ws-protocol-examples package as well and then just link to it? (That doesn't have to be decided/done in this PR, we can do it as follow-up work)

Author: I would prefer putting it in the `ws-protocol-examples` package and linking to it. Didn't do here, because I didn't see an existing file like for the Python package /  wasn't sure if there was a reason for that.

Reviewer: I can do this soon or you're welcome to do it as well

Author: TODO: Keep template as is in README --> `ws-protocol-examples` repo.

main().catch(console.error);
```

Copy the template code into a file and run it (e.g. `node server.js`). Then, make the necessary adjustments to the file to customize this simple server to your desired specifications.

## Client template

> The template below subscribes to messages on all channels that use the `json` encoding. See [`@foxglove/ws-protocol-examples`](../ws-protocol-examples#example-client) for an example client that subscribes to messages with the `protobuf` encoding.

Reviewer: use absolute url for package readme since it needs to work on npm

main().catch(console.error);
```

## Client template

> The example client template below subscribes to messages on all channels that use the `json` encoding. 

Reviewer: Might want to mention that the `simple-client` in the examples repo has an example of protobuf encoding support.

The following script provides a simple example client which subscribes to messages on all channels that use the `json` encoding. To get started with the example client:
The example client template below subscribes to messages on all channels that use the `json` encoding. 

1. Copy the script below into a file named `client.js`.
2. Run the [example server above](#example-server) or any other Foxglove WebSocket server.
3. In a separate terminal, run `node client.js`.

```
$ node client.js
{
  subscriptionId: 0,
  timestamp: 1638999307183000000n,
  data: { msg: 'Hello!', count: 2849 }
}
{
  subscriptionId: 0,
  timestamp: 1638999307384000000n,
  data: { msg: 'Hello!', count: 2850 }
}
...

> ```

Reviewer: You don't think it's helpful to show expected output if the client is working properly?

main().catch(console.error);
```

Copy the template code into a file (e.g. `client.js`) and start up a [Foxglove Websocket server](#server-template). In a separate terminal window, run the client code (e.g. `node client.js`).

You should see the following output if both your server and client are running correctly:

```

> $ node client.js

Reviewer: It occurs to me that we should update the `simple-client` script to handle JSON messages as well as protobuf, since JSON is easier and it's a bit weird to have one example that supports only protobuf and one that supports only JSON. Doesn't need to be done in this PR.

Author: Agreed – the long-term ideal is probably for the example and implementation packages to cover all supported encodings. So something like:

- `foxglove-websocket-examples` - Python examples package for JSON (existing) and Protobuf (TODO)
- `foxglove-websocket` – Python implementation package without any encoding dependencies (i.e. `json`; TODO)
-  `@foxglove/ws-protocol-examples` - TS examples package for JSON (TODO) and Protobuf (existing)
- `@foxglove/ws-protocol` - TS implementation package without any encoding dependencies (i.e. `ws`; TODO)

Reviewer: I went down a rabbit hole today learning about python optional dependencies. The tl;dr is that as of #29 you can `pip install foxglove-websocket[examples]` which will bring in the optional protobuf dependency.

Reviewer: I guess similarly to the server template above, this client can be moved into the example scripts package and removed from the readme (in a separate PR)

## Development

The `ws-protocol` package lives inside a monorepo that uses [yarn workspaces](https://yarnpkg.com/features/workspaces), so most commands (other than `yarn install`) should be prefixed with `yarn workspace @foxglove/ws-protocol...`.

- `yarn install` – Install development dependencies

> - `yarn workspace @foxglove/ws-protocol version --patch` (or `--minor` or `--major`) – Increment the version number and create the appropriate git tag

Reviewer: same comments apply here as in the examples repo
